At only eight years old, I faced a challenge that provided an instrumental lesson for my life.  My family and I hiked rim to rim across the Grand Canyon over summer vacation, a hike that less than one percent of park visitors attempt.  The 25 mile trail featured 6000 feet of elevation change, scorching temperatures of over 120 degrees, jagged cliffs, rattlesnakes, and water sources that were far in between.  It was an ambitious trek for any hiker -- let alone a young beginner like myself.  
Quickly into the journey the trail took its toll on me.  My feet blistered and ached.  My calves developed intense sunburns.  My arms became exhausted from hauling my pack that was filled with my clothing and other supplies.  A layer of dust caked my entire body.  I reached the campground at the base of the canyon fatigued.  More concerning, the following day we were set to climb against gravity, up and out of the canyon.  I remember arguing with my parents, asking to stay at our campground just one more day to rest.  I even briefly considered asking my dad to carry me the rest of the way.  The impending task had made me anxious and uncomfortable and I wanted an escape -- there was none.
I awoke on the third day determined to finish the work.  I grinded through the final miles of the journey, pushing myself past points I knew I had.  Oddly, the ache in my feet and the pain in my arms subsided, as I became lost in focus.  Eventually, I crested the canyon, arriving at the South Rim gift shop.  I looked around in disbelief, as tourists posed for pictures in front of the nearby overlook.  Most of the adults were wearing sandals, Cokes in hand.  Few of them even ventured to the trailhead, satisfied with the view from the overlook.  Seeing the adults gave me a sense of pride: at eight years old I had accomplished something many very few of the adults present had even tried.  From that moment, I learned that hard work was worth it.  The pain I had felt just hours earlier did no longer seem so bad.  I learned that when I am uncomfortable -- feeling overwhelmed by tasks ahead and questioning if I am capable -- to go for it because at these moments I have the opportunity to do something remarkable.  It taught me that I am often more capable than I believe.  I should not limit myself by trying to escape the problems that lie ahead of me. 
Although I may not think of the rim to rim hike with every challenge that I face, the character I gained while on the trail has stuck with me.  I use the same grit I had to call upon on the trail regularly, whether during late nights of studying, long practices, or hard tests.  The canyon taught me not to fear trying new things.  Just as I was a beginner hiker in the canyon, there have been and will be many times in my life where I am a beginner.  Having confidence in my capability, even in times of difficulty, will be essential to my ability to learn new skills in my future.  Finally, the canyon taught me how procrastination is a poor way to handle obstacles.  In the bottom of the canyon, I wanted to avoid the struggle of the hike, so I tried to delay the climb another day.  This procrastination would not have helped my situation, as eventually I would have to face the challenge.  Knowing this, in my life I have always tried to attack my challenges directly, instead allowing them to linger.  The character instilled in me by the Grand Canyon will continue to serve me throughout my life.
